Start recording.
I think Arya is not. Here now so.
I hope you could practice on the
material on the last session,
just to remember how the analysis and
design of a sequential circuit is
and what are the steps and the only
category we discussed was just a second
that have flip flop or good morning
or I already started the recording.
So today I'm going to.
Discuss about the analysis and the
design of the other categories in the
sequential logic or sequential circuit.
So today it's going to be a little
bit again more complicated,
so I need your full attention
and please avoid any distractions
because today's material is kind of.
Tricky so I put.
I start my lecture by this slide
by Quentin Tarantino.
So have you seen any movie of
this great director?
Oh great, yes. So one of his famous
movie is called Pulp Fiction and if you
remember in that movie in one of the scene.
He was in his house and, uh.
The the active bring it dead
body to his house and etc so.
That antenna was one of the most
influential director in the late 90s
because he bring the nonlinearity non
linearity in a narration for this story so.
Anne is influential movie was Pulp Fiction,
so I put this slide just to show you
that I mean how the sequence or how.
Considering putting different scene
of a movie can have an influence
on your narration.
Very similar to our course that
how keeping track of the sequence
or timing or the sequence diagram
actually plays an important role in
designing the sequential circuits.
So it's not just combination logic
or a normal movie that starts from
the very beginning to the end.
You have to keep track of the sequence.
And have you seen Pulp Fiction anymore?
Any review?
Yeah, great, so if you want to.
I mean, uh, figure out this story
after perficient you have to consider
the sequence and you have to attach
the start and end of each sequence of
the movie without which you cannot
understand what are these story.
What is the story so?
And also it adds more complexity,
so that's why I need your full
attention today, so we'll start
with the first category sequential
logic that only have flip flops.
And now today we are going to discuss the
other two categories flipped up with inputs.
And Flip flop with inputs and outputs.
So instead of just explaining each of
these two categories in separate sections,
I want to explain the flip flop
with input and output which covers
the flip flop with input as well.
So basically I'm going to explain
this category which already covers
this category as well so.
What is the analysis and design
of a sequential circuit where not
only we have a flip flops as in
memory of the circuit, but also we
have some inputs and some outputs.
Kind of mixture of the combination
logic and the sequential logic.
So as we already said,
analysis means that we are given a circuit
and we have to analyze the behavior.
So basically have to form the state
table state transition diagram and etc.
Which is kind of easier,
but the design is the reverse procedure.
We are given a problem and we have
to determine how much memory we need.
What is the state table?
What is this the transition diagram?
And then we designed the second.
Also the design as you remember,
involves the excitation equations
in the sequential circuit.
You have to figure out what are
the inputs of the flip flops based
on the type of flip flops.
So you have to write the Boolean function
for each input of the flip flops,
which we call them,
equip excitation equations and you have
to minimize them and then finally draws.
So it's kind of more steps.
So now we want to add more complexity
in to gain more flexibility.
So although this design is kind of complex,
but it gives us more flexibility or more.
Mean.
We can do more with these type of tickets.
So before I start the analysis and design,
I have to say that those
circuits that have flip flops,
inputs and outputs can be categorized
based on the type of outputs
into two other sub categories.
Those that are based on Mealy and
then explain what is Mealy and
those that are based on the more.
So if flip flow with input and outputs
because of the type of outputs also
can be categorized into two other
subcategories million models and more MoD.
So what are building models and more models?
Actually, uh, George Miller was the I mean,
a computer mathematics computer
scientist and mathematician.
What he said is that if you want
to add an output to a circuit.
He says that your output must
be a function of current state.
By state, we mean flip flops.
Or memory. And also the inputs.
So basically,
if you want to write a Boolean
function for output,
your output must have the flip flops.
The variables for the flip flops and
also the variables for the inputs.
If your output is like as a
function of Qantas data inputs,
we call this a sequential
circuit based on million model.
We'll see that this type of
circuit has some problems.
Will see the problem an later
because of these problems are
another computer scientist and
mathematician more at work more later.
Not later, actually.
He was before,
so he proposed another model which says that.
For avoiding those problems,
we just want to limit the output.
As a function of only the flip flops.
And we don't want to consider the inputs.
As a as a variable that can have
an impact on the output value.
So for now,
just remember this that the output is
a function of either flip flops only,
so we call it more model or flip
flops and the inputs we call it
million model will explain what
are these in some examples.
So here is the overall design of
these two models. In the first model.
In this sense that.
If we have some flip flops.
some Gates as the counter
we designed last lecture.
So imagine we have a counter here.
So for instance we have 3 flip flops
here and some gates involved in the
input of the flip flops and attach.
He says that if you want to add
an output you to your design.
This output not only feed from
the flip flops.
But also it may have feed from the input.
So basically the output is. Uh.
Receiving the values from the
flip flops and the inputs.
But more it says that.
The design for the output must
be in a way that it only accepts
the input from the flip flops.
An input must only act.
Impact the flip flops, not the outputs.
It is much more better and much more.
I mean simpler, that's why.
Out by default,
we usually go with the more model.
Otherwise, the question or the guy that
asked us to design a second ask us to
design a second based on the MIDI type.
So by default we go with them or model.
So here is our default.
So designing a flip flop,
input output and the output
is based on the more model.
So let's see what is a more model.
What is the analysis of a given second
that is based on the more model?
So let's do a recap on the analysis of
if a circuit that only has flip flops.
So imagine we are in the last lecture.
We only have flip flops.
There is no input or output.
So here is the steps.
So if you remember at the first
we have to see we are analysing.
Analyzing is sequential
circuit or combination circuit.
We said that if there is a flip
flop or feedback it is a sequential.
Otherwise the combination
or circuit and we do.
The analysis of combination logic
as we did before the midterm and
one or two weeks after Dimitar.
If you're analyzing a sequential circuit,
we have to see what are the flip flops you
have to note down the type of flip flops,
and then because each flip flop can
install one bit so the number of
overall state of the circuit is 2 to
the power of number of flip flops,
and then we form this state table.
One column for the current state
of the Flip Flop, one column for
the next state of the Flip Flop,
and then we fill out the state table.
And then after the state table,
we form the state transition diagram
and then we can analyze the diagram
based on to figure out what's
the problem with this design.
Sometimes some states are don't care,
so we want to avoid those, don't care states.
These are the analysis steps.
So what are going or what are the
changes when we have inputs and outputs?
So before we start our example,
these are the changes that we are going to
do on the analysis steps when we have inputs.
We want to do the analysis
model based on more.
As you can see,
the changes is only on the number of states.
In the circuit.
So because we have input,
So what the number of overall state of the
circuit is not just depend on the flip flops,
but also it should consider the
different values of the inputs.
And because the number of states
in the circuit is a different,
so as a result the state table
is also different.
We have to add more column to support
the different values of input.
And as a result,
feeling the state table is
a little bit different.
And finally the state transition
diagram is a little bit different.
So these rows that I highlighted by
yellow color basically says that.
Just a small change we have to do
to these steps to support analyzing
a circuit that has inputs and
outputs based on the more model.
So what are these changes?
So I'm going to explain the changes
by an example as the way we did
for the analyzing the circuit.
This flip flops.
So here is the circuit that are given
to us and we are asked to do the.
Analysis. So first and foremost,
as we said the question,
the first question is that are
we dealing with a sequential
circuit or combination circuit?
So we said that as long as
if there is at least one flip
flop or at least one feedback,
we're dealing with this sequential circuit.
So if you back if you go back to the circuit.
So we have one flip flop here.
Of type T.
Another flip flop of Type J car.
So as a result we are dealing
with a sequential circuit.
So and also we have one feedback here.
So here is the feedback from
the JCAR to the T flip flop.
So the answer to the first question is we
are dealing with a sequential circuit.
So after we found that we
have a sequential circuit,
the next step is what are the flip flops?
So as I said, we have a free flow of JK
so we said that we pick a name for that.
Imagine we pick a name a for this flip flop
and for the T flip flop we pick a name B.
So these are the names of the flip
flops and we note the type of the flip
flops just to remember the actions
to the input of the flip flops.
And then the next is what are these
states of the whole circuit based on
2 flip flops we are going to have each
flip flop so the T flip flop gonna have
either zero or one two states multiplied
by the a flip flop which is a jaycar.
Flip flop as twisted multiplied by two.
So four estate, however, in this design.
As you can look closely to the circuit,
you can see that this another input.
To the whole circuit.
So that's the change to the type of analysis.
Previously we only had flip flops.
There were no inputs.
The only inputs was the Clock.
So the Clock is just for triggering
the flip flops. However,
in this circuit you see another input X,
which goes inside the circuit and
has an impact on the flip flops.
Once X goes here.
An the value of X has an influence
on the input of T.
Also, this X comes here.
And it has an impact on the input
of J for the a flip flop.
So the value of X has an influence
or has an impact.
So we have to consider this as well.
So because you have only one input,
this X input might be zero or one,
so this binary variable gonna
be 2 values to possibilities.
So we have to include these as well.
So two values of the input,
two values of the T flip flop,
two values of the Jacob Flip Flop in total 8.
Different possibilities or
combinations for the whole circuit?
So either X is 0.
T flip flop is 0 J Kise Zero or X.
IS0T is 1, jaykar is zero and etc.
So in total we're going to have
eight different possibilities for these.
So.
That's the change.
Not only you have to consider the
possibilities of the flip flops,
but also you have to consider
the possibilities of the inputs.
In this example we have only one input,
so we're going to have the number
of flip flops plus number of inputs
to the power of three or eight.
So after we figure out the diff,
I mean all the possible estate of the
circuit. Same as in previous analysis.
We have to form the state table.
So for this state table,
as before, we have to create.
One column for each flip
flop for the correct state.
One column for each flip flop
for the next step.
So as you can see here,
this part and this part is
exactly the same as when we don't
have any input or output.
Very similar.
So the only minor changes here is the input.
So you have to include one column for
the different values of the input.
So in total in the left side of the
table you have the current value of
the flip-flops plus the value of input.
In the right side.
So if we separate the table by
this line in the right side,
we have the values of the
flip flop for the
next state.
And if you look closely to the circuit,
you can see that there is another.
Output to the circuit which we call it F.
So the main output of this flip flop
here is Q, the second output is Q bar,
so the output of flip flops and just
we don't consider them as the Apple
of the circuit because these are just
showing the state of the flip flops.
But here you can see that there
is another output to the circuit,
so you have to choose a name for that F.
And then you have to consider
what are the value of F.
Based on the value of the input to the.
So if you see if you see
F is end of two inputs.
The first input comes from the output of a.
The second input comes from the output of B.
So basically F is A&B but A&B are flip flops.
So now you can see that it's a more model.
Why? Because F doesn't depend on the X,
it only depends on the value of flip flops.
That's why we call this more model.
So here is the state
table and a minor change.
So in the left side you have to
include the input in the right
side you have to include the app.
If there is an app.
And then, uh, oh,
there's another way to show the state
table when you have input an output?
I don't like this way,
but just for your information,
one way is this.
You can have the correct current value
of the flip flops in the left side.
In the right side you can determine
the value of flip flops for the next.
State based on the value of X.
So basically just distributing the value
of X toward the right side of the table.
So basically you can say that
for the next state, if X is 0.
These are the values.
For the next step, if X is 1,
these are the values.
And because F.
Doesn't depend on X,
so you don't have to distribute X on F.
So F is only one single.
If you do this,
the number of rows are eight,
just depends on the different value of A&B.
Because you distribute X here,
so you add more columns,
but the previous figure because
you have a B&X, you're going to
have a sorry in the previous one.
In this one you're gonna have eight rows.
True to the power of three,
but in this design you're
going to have four rows.
000110 and one one so you
don't need the other bugs.
Instead, you have more columns,
so it depends on your.
Desire, but honestly I.
I prefer this way because
it's more, I mean, simpler.
So now we know how to form the state
table when we have input an output,
so only one column for inputs.
If you have two inputs,
you have to add 2 columns and
set up for each input one color.
In the right side for the each
output you have to add 1 card.
And then you have to start
filling the state table.
So now let's see what is going
to be the value of the rows or
cells of the state table. So.
Very similar to the time that
we don't have input or output.
The value of the current state of the
flip flops are already all the possibilities,
so 00011011,
But this time you have input,
so you have to consider the
different values of X.
So if X is either zero or one,
so you're going to have
000 and then 1/2 answers.
As you can see,
these are the midterm 0 up until mid term 7.
But look at the difference.
X is not a flip flop, it's an input
binary variable AB is a flip flop.
So be careful about the I mean,
the type of the value.
In the right side you have
to fill out the cells.
Very similar to previous analysis.
Before we see what is going to
be the next value of egg or P.
The easiest part is about the output
because we are dealing with the more
model and the more model only depends
on the current value of the flip flops,
so F is A&B.
So if A&B are 00A and B becomes 0.
If A is 1B is 0, the end is 0 an etc.
So all these values are planted.
Here A is 1B is 1, so F becomes one.
And then 000 and then one.
So you see,
the output is very simple and
because it's based on the more model.
So X is not involved.
You can imagine that if this circuit
was based on the milli model.
Then you have to have kind
of F is a function of,
not only flip flops but also
the input variable X.
So then you have to consider
the value of X as well.
But here we have more model
only the value of flip flops.
And then you start with the
other cells of the right side.
So now you have to see
what are the value of A&B.
The only difference here is that now a
the next value of a not only depends on
the value of A&B at the current state.
But also it depends on the value of XY,
because X has an influence on
the input of the flip-flops.
So you have to consider that as well.
So let's start with the first cell.
So let's see what is the next
value of a. Hey correctly is 0.
So the input of the A for the J&K
because it's a J car flip flop.
We have to determine what is the
value of J&K. The value of K
which is easier comes from B not.
B is zero followed by the nuts of zero.
He comes here becomes one, so K is 1.
J is the end of BB0 comes here.
Zero and with everything becomes 0,
so J is 0.
So if J is zero, K1, what is the
action in the JK? Anybody?
I tell you have the answer reset,
so J IS0K is 1 reset, so you're
going to have zero at the next step.
How about deep? So now let's so we
have zero in the next step for a.
What is the next step for B?
So again, a is zero correctly
and B is zero currently.
Now we have to determine the input
for the B as of type T flipper.
So T is the end of ** is 0.
And anything we don't care because one
of the input of AD is 0, so T becomes 0.
So if we have zero in the T.
What was the action?
The store, so whatever we had,
we store it so zero remains 0.
So my next question for me is this.
What is the value of for this row?
Basically, currently X is 0 this role.
X IS0D is 0. A is 1.
So if the next positive Clock comes.
What happens to the value of a?
So Tatiana says the reset.
Next says reset.
So let's see what's the action so.
The K comes from B, not so B is 0,
not becomes one. Exit 0.
And also here we have 00 and 00 reset so.
01 J IS0K is one is the reset action,
so whatever the value of a is it reset to 0.
So it becomes 0.
What's the value of P?
So let me. Change the color for.
This one. What's the value of P?
Philip says zero.
Tatiana says store, so let's see.
So because the input of the T flip
flop for B is and of X and something
X is 0 is comes here it comes here.
So the input for the T is 00.
Is the store.
So in the stores with whatever
it had it had zero.
So it is store 0. An etc.
So basically you have to
fill out itself this way.
So. I put here one.
So seems I did cool.
So I have to fix this.
So you can check these at home as well,
so if there's a typo, let me know.
So I just put an example here and
let's see what is the value of this.
So what is the value of this?
So currently X is 1. And D is 0.
And a is 1. So what is the value of P?
So X comes here, it's here is 1.
And then the output of a A comes from a Swan.
One comes here 11 and becomes one.
When we have one in the input
of T is complemented, correct,
so complement of the zero becomes one,
so it has zero, it becomes one. Yeah.
So you see, the other minor changed.
The only thing here we have
to be careful not only about
the value of the flip flops,
but also the value of the inputs
because inputs has an influence
on the input of the flip flops.
Also, here we have an output
and because output only depends
on the value of flip flops,
so you already know 011 thing very
very crucial thing here is this.
The value of output.
Depends on the current state.
Of the flip flops,
not the next state of the flip flop.
Be careful about this.
So. That's why we before we see what
are the next value of flip flops,
we fill out the. Outputs.
So because the output only depends on
the current value of the flip flop,
this is very crucial.
So be careful about this.
So as you can see, it's very simple.
So when you fill out the.
The table the next is drawing
the state transition diagram.
So the only change for the state
transition diagram is that you have to.
Include the value of X as well.
So. You have to include the
value of inputs and the value of
outputs to your diagram as well.
So if you remember, we create a
node for each state of the circuit.
We had two flip flops Amb so they
gonna have to value each of them.
So you gonna have two to
the power of two nodes so.
In for the nodes,
the number of nodes still
depends on the number of these
states for the flip flops.
So the input doesn't have any influence
here in terms of the number of nodes.
So where the input comes?
The input goes on top of the edges.
So basically we say that
if we are at the 00,
meaning that a IS0B is 0.
And the input is zero.
We transfer back to the 00 Y.
Let's back to the state table.
If you're at 00.
And the X is zero with transit 2. 00
If if you are at 00 and the X is
1 if you are at 00, an X is one.
We transit 2. 00 So basically it
says that as long as both value flip
flops are zero, the value of X.
If you make it 0 or one doesn't change,
we still stay at the same state 00.
The same for the other states,
so you have to basically check that if
you are at, for instance one and one,
meaning that a is 1B is 1.
If the input changes from zero to one
or from one to zero, what happens?
So this diagram basically shows that the
input to the sequential circuit is kind of
controlling the behavior of the circuit.
Without the input,
whenever you have a positive edge,
the circuit goes to the next step
is on the type of flip flops,
but when you have input you have
additional control over the circuit,
but changing the value of input that can
change the behavior of this circuit.
That's why you have more flexibility.
So not only the value of state
the value of flip flops matters,
but also the value of input matters
and the value of inputs actually guide
the transition between the states.
So again, for instance here,
if you are at one and one and the
input is one, we go to the 01.
However, if the X is zero, we stay here.
So you see the guidance or the
kind of control.
Basically, this control is at your hand.
You can say that I want the circuit
will stay at one and one or I want
to make it move toward this state.
So if you go back to the state table.
Basically. If the your circuit is
at one and one. You can control X.
You can say that I keep X0 in order to
keep the circuit at the same state.
If you want to change your mind and you
want to make the change to the behavior
of the circuit and they can next move,
you can simply say that I make X1.
And if you make it 1,
the second moves from 11210.
So this input is kind of our control.
Over the behavior of the 2nd.
So you see this change to the
diagram is just the input goes
to the on top of the edges.
So where the output goes.
The outputs. If I want to add
the output to the diagram,
where should I put that?
Anybody can help me?
So if you back to the state table,
basically we say that if
you are for instance at.
Imagine we are at this state.
So if we are at this stage regardless
of the X, the value of output is. 0.
So. Because based on the more model,
it only depends on the value of the
flip flops. So if I want to add.
The value of F.
In the circuit, should I add this
on top of edges or inside the notes?
Anybody? So Tatiana Philip says inside.
And the reason is because F only
depends on the value of A&B,
so it doesn't depend on the X so.
I only need to know the value of
Amb which are inside the note.
So I have to put the value of
F inside the note because I say
that a IS0B is zero, F gonna be 0.
A is a is 1B is 1F gonna be 0?
10 F Kennedy zero. The only cases
A&B or both one so F becomes one.
So the changes here.
So the value of F.
Goes inside the note and the reason is
the value of a only is a function of AMD.
This is the analysis that another
optional state is that you can analyze
this state transition diagram to figure
out what's the problem. For instance,
in this circuit you can see that.
Take it if it goes to the 00,
it remains at this state forever.
Even if you change your
control from zero or one,
it never get rid of that state.
So then you can say that, oh,
this is a LifeLock meaning that.
For all many positive edges and
all your control either zero or
one II remains at this state,
never moves from two other states,
so this is a kind of problem,
and then you can't fix the problem.
You can change the input of your
flip flops to come up with a new.
I mean move. For instance,
you can say that if it is zero,
is stay at the same, but if it is,
one goes to here.
To get rid of that life cycle.
But this is optional.
So one more thing is that.
Syncronization?
Before we already said that.
have flip flops with Clock.
Meaning that they just accept the
change when there is a positive edge.
An if I attach the whole flip flops
of the circuit to one single Clock,
I can synchronize the change
of these flip flops altogether.
So basically the change
to the AMD is in parallel.
Because both accepted change at the
same moment at the first positive edge a
accept the change be accept the change.
So this synchronized action is called
synchronization in sequential seconds.
As you can see, if because depends on AMD.
F is also synchronized with the value of AMD.
If A&B changes suddenly, F changes,
so F is also synchronized with A&B.
Because this is based on the more model.
The only thing which is not synchronized
with the Clock is X is our our hand.
We can change X whenever we want.
But the change to the X only propagate inside
the flip flops when we have positive edges
an only changes F when the A&B changes.
So you can see that in this circuit,
FAB are all synchronized
with this simple Clock.
The only variable which is not
synchronized is X, so what's the?
What's important important is that
if you draw the timing diagram.
You can see here we have positive
edges and if you analyze the behavior
of the circuit. Within the time.
It matters. So assuming that we a is
initially one and B is initially 0,
so B is zero, A is 1.
Because they are synchronized
with the first positive edge,
they're gonna change. At this moment.
So before this moment they
gonna keep whatever they had,
so a is 0, so a is 1B is 0.
And because A&B is zero, F is a is,
1B is zero at the end of them
is FF is also remains there.
Up until this moment.
At this moment we have a positive edge,
meaning that the flip flops accept
the change based on the inputs.
What are the inputs so we can
see that X is at this moment 0.
X is zero, A is 1B is 0, so 010.
You can go to the state table or you
can go to the state transition diagram.
So when the A is 1. B is 0.
An X is zero. We transit 210.
An F is 0.
So basically a becomes 0B becomes one.
So a drops 0. He goes to one.
An up until T next positive edge.
An F is the end of A&BAOP is 1,
so the end cannot be 0 up
until the positive edge.
Oh, let me back. So B is 1.
So let's back to the state table. So a is 1.
Oh, because of this error or you're
right because of this error is 0.
So assuming that the one is correct.
You're right, Anna, yes that
typo I have to fix that, yeah?
So the only thing here I just want
to say is that. The value of X.
The change to the value of X
doesn't depend on the Clock.
It changes whenever it was
because it's in our hand,
but the value of A&B changes
on the positive edges,
so it only look at the previous value
and the value of X at the positive edge.
And the value of F because it's an end
of AMB only depends on the change to A&B.
So F is also synchronized
with the positive edges.
So you can practice this at home.
What is going to be the
next value within the time?
Now, one thing for sure.
One of the questions in the final
exam going to be the timing diagram
and the way that you see the.
Changes to the flip flop based on the inputs.
So what is going to be the a synchronized?
If the value of F.
Hasn't input or kind of dependent on X.
If I change the second like this,
meaning that X has an influence on F.
Then the second is not
based on their more model.
It is based on the Milli model.
Which is kind of.
More complex because F right now
is not synchronized with the A&B.
It accepts X, so whenever X changes,
F changes. So then the timing
diagram is a little bit different.
So I leave these slides
for you to cover at home,
so as you can see here the
changes because F is end of a B&X.
So now you have to fill out the
column of the F concerning X.
So the only difference of the more
amilies in the output you can see other
parts of the table doesn't change.
And one thing is that because now
the value of F depends on the X
and the state of the circuit,
you cannot put the output inside the node.
You have to output the output on
top of the edges. So basically here
is is an example, if the A is 1.
He is 1. And then the value of.
X is 1. In the mean time that
you transit to the next State 01,
the value of F becomes one.
And then. When you are at 01,
meaning that a is 1B0.
The value of F or the
output depends on the input.
If it is zero, it is zero,
if it is one, it is still one,
because one of the busier.
So here is the small change when you
have dealing where you are dealing with.
A sequential circuit based on.
Millie mother which is F,
is out of synchronization.
So we are done with the analysis of the
circuit that has input outputs and you
have to be careful that the output is
based on them or or milli more is simpler.
Millie is kind of complex because it
out of synchronization and it accepts
the change whenever the input changes.
So now we want to go to next step
which is design of a circuit that
needs input output and the flip flops.
So before I start.
Any questions so far?
There's no question.
So great neck. So let me check with
other students that have the focus.
So again like previous.
Our our unconvention just send me
something like that. I make sure
that you have the focus. So great.
So I need six more. 11
So how about other students? OK, so nice.
So let's continue with the design.
So again, I'm going to explain the
design by that example so you have to
practice these at home or with different.
I mean examples.
Just it's not just memorizing,
you have to practice.
It's like programming.
So you have to program or you have
to practice to know what are the
steps of the analysis or design.
So because in the lecture
we have time for an example,
so I leave it to you to practice at home.
Also in the office so we can practice more.
So let's see what is the design
we have input and output.
First and foremost,
we have to see that the problem
needs an input or output or no.
So it depends on whether we can
solve the problem only by flip
flops or we have to add some input
and outputs to solve the problem.
So here I put an example.
I want to design A circuit
that counts up and down it.
It is not just a counter up,
its counts not only up but also counts down.
So basically this circuit is this.
So I want to the behavior the circuit
counts up if I want to do I mean from
counting from zero to some number N.
But sometime I changed my mind
and I want to ask the second
account back so it counts down.
So basically you can count 01234 and
suddenly you want to change their behavior
and then count down SO5432 and etc.
So basically there is a switch
between the behavior of the circuit.
Either it goes up or down,
but you want to do this in
the same single second.
So basically you want to switch between
two different behaviors of the circuit.
And also there is another part
in the question. It says that.
If the circuit reaches a state of that
the number the current number is even,
we want to turn on a light.
In another word,
we want to show the user that.
Currently,
the number of the circuit is even.
So here is again.
Here is the question we want to build
a circuit or kind of device that counts
from zero to 10, for instance 01234.
But at some point we may change our decision.
I want to do countdown for
instance from 8765 and etc.
And then at each state we want to
determine that the number that
the circuit shows or the 2nd.
Has is a even or odd if it is even we
want to act with one or 10 on the line.
Otherwise we don't want to do anything.
So we want to design this circuit.
So let's do a recap on the design when
we don't have any input or output.
First and foremost is that.
Are we need a memory to design
the circuit or no?
If you don't need any memory you are dealing
with designing a combination circuit.
Very similar to the midterm exam and etc.
So basically you form the truth table,
midterm simplification, etc.
But if you need memory, you have to.
The next question is that how
much memory you need.
So let's see, we need a memory or not.
As we said,
in order to going to counting up,
you have to store your current number
in order to make an add to one.
So if you start at zero and then go
to one and then go to two so you have
to store 2 somewhere in the next
step you have to add one to two.
If you don't want to store these values,
you don't know what is the current
number that you want to add.
Also for counting down,
if you're at #3 in order to count down,
you have to store 3 somewhere in order
to deduct one number from this and make it 2.
If you don't store these
intermediate numbers,
you don't know what is the current
value to produce one unit from that.
So definitely you need memory.
But the next question is that how
much memory you need in another way?
How much flip flop you need?
So imagine we want to build a
counter that can count up until 7.
So in binary system, if you want to
count up until seven, you need 3 bits,
so 012 up until 7 which is 111.
Also, for the counting down at any point,
if you want to do accounting
unit 3 bits, so 765 etc.
So for any intermediate value you need
3 pets for each bit unit 1 flip flop.
So in total you gonna need 3 flip flops.
The next is.
Do you need input and output or no?
Here, because you have two different
behaviors and choosing between
these behaviors or at your hand,
you have to have a control wire
or control signal to the circuit,
you have to tell the circuit that
counts up or you change your decision
and ask the circuit in the countdown.
As a result, whenever you feel like that
you need a control over the circuit,
it means that you need a input.
Because we have two different behaviors,
two different behaviors can be.
Selected by only one bit,
either 0 for counting up
or one for counting down.
If you need to choose between
four different decisions,
you will need two inputs,
for instance X&Y. Anna tips.
How about the output?
The question says that if.
The number at the current state is even.
You know we want to turn on the light,
meaning that do we need an
output to determine that the
current number is even or odd.
So as a result you need some output.
Here we just want to turn
on or off the lights,
so you need one did to show the
fact that the number is even or
are so only one pioneer variable.
Another way another example would
be showing that the correct number,
the remainder of correct
number with for instance 3.
So if the question asks you that if the
show the remainder of current number.
Buy 3 then how many output you need.
Because the tension is correct.
2 Because the the remainder of any number
by three is either zero, one or two.
So to show these numbers in binary system,
you need 2 bits 000110.
012 so you need F1 and F2,
so you need two outputs.
So let's stay with this
example and now design.
So for the design we have to form the state
transition diagram before the state table.
It shows the behavior of the circuit.
So if this circuit does the count up,
meaning that the control is the X is 0,
this is the state transition diagram.
We are at 000. And then X is zero.
We go to 1X is 0, go to two.
We go to three. Open till 7.
From 7 by X by our design choice we go to 0.
If you want to do countdown.
We have to look at the
input if we are at zero.
Countdown is 7 if you are at seven.
Countdown is 6 countdown to 5,
four an, etc. If the X is 1.
Putting these two behavior in one.
Diagram becomes this.
So you see that based on
different state of the circuit,
different numbers if the input is zero,
we count up if the X is one,
we can't down.
So where is the output?
The output only depends on
the value of the state of
the circuit or the number.
If the number is even,
it becomes 1, otherwise it's 0.
So here is the output.
So if the number is even,
it becomes 1, otherwise 0.
Or kind of? I mean turning on the
light or turning on this state.
Four and six.
Otherwise, the output is 0.
So when you have the state
transition diagram,
the next step is filling
this state table,
which is very simple.
For each bit you need a flip flop ABC
and this is your switch control X.
If X is 0. You do chance up.
Zero goes to 11, goes to two an etc and
that's six goes to 7. Seven goes to 0.
If X is 1 at any state, you count down.
If you are at zero, you go to 7.
If you are at one, you go to 0.
If you are at two, you go to one
and set accounting gap. And the F.
The value of F depends on the current number.
Current number.
Zero is even, F is 1, one is,
RF is zero and etc.
Because F only depends on
the value of the state.
I mean the number that
the circuit shows.
It is a more model.
So the value of X doesn't matter.
So now we have this state table.
So when we have this state table,
what is the next step?
Circuit, so the second needs flip flops.
So the next step is.
Choosing the flip flops.
So what flip flops you
want to add to the circuit?
So the next step is designing
the circuit so you have to choose
the flip flop for your storage.
You need ABC. You can select.
Whatever you want.
Mixture of them or all as one type etc.
So for this example I put in
mixture of the flip flops.
I choose one T flip flop,
1D flip flop and one jaycar flip flop.
I put the Jacob for the egg.
Love for the B&T flip flop for the seat.
Here is the F and here's the X.
What is the next step?
So you select your flip flops for
your memory and now the next step is.
What is the next step?
Correct me yes, this this circuit
doesn't work because the input of the
flip flops actually is not determined.
What are the input of the flip flops?
So you have to figure out the input
of the flip flops, which we call them.
Equation functions, excitation functions.
Also, what is the value for F?
What is the influence of X
over the flip flops?
An A. It's these wires,
so you have to determine that.
So because we are dealing with a more model,
F only depends on ABC, so X is not going to.
Influence F. F is only depends on ABC,
however extra influence ABC and also each
flip flop can have feedbacks from each other.
So let's write the equations for
the input of the flip-flops.
So this is the next step.
As before,
excitation equations for each flip
flop and minimization of the equations.
So we have a flip flop of JCAR so we have
to figure out what is the value of J.
What is the value of K?
We have D flip flop for BD.
Flip Flop has only one input
so we need one equation.
See Flip Flop is of type T flip flop
so T flip flop only needs one input.
But be careful here,
the equations not only depends on
the other flip-flops ABC as before,
but also it depends on the value of input X.
So let's write the equations for
the input of J confident flow.
Very similar to the previous design.
You have to see what action is required
for transition of the values of a. So.
For the air, in order to go to one.
You need to do either sets.
Meaning that 10 or you can do
compliments, meaning that one one.
So the value of cake doesn't matter.
41 goes to 0. Either you do
reset or compliments so the
value of Jay doesn't matter.
Cake must be one an attach.
So if you write the equation for J,
the meter for Jade,
these are the don't cares.
And these are the midterms
that matches one the same 4K.
And this is the midterms for
J and the other don't cares.
The next is the diff.
The B flip flop which
of Type D flip flop?
So here is kind of.
We haven't practiced this,
but this is an example.
So there be Flip Flop Transit from 020.
In the D flip flop when we
want to do zero to zero,
we have to do reset.
So the input must be 0.
From zero to one, we have to do set.
The input must be one.
Remember D Flip flop has only one input,
so if the input is zero it becomes zero.
If the input is 1 becomes one.
And for instance,
one of the random one is here from the one
goes from zero goes to 0, which is reset.
So you can see that because the
D flip flop has only accept one
action for each of the values,
there is no don't care.
So when you have the flip flop don't care,
doesn't happen.
So these are the midterms that make
the input one. And never you're
gonna have don't care condition.
The next is T flip flop.
For the seat that if left
for the see the sand.
What is the action for that?
If love flow from zero to 0?
Store for the store.
The input must be 0.
For instance, here one goes to one.
Meaning of store for the store
you have to make it 0. However,
here you have zero which goes to one.
If zero goes to one for the T flip flop,
you have to do complements or
you have to make the input one.
As you can see here, because for the T
flip flop for any action for any value
you have only one action so don't care.
Condition never happens in T flip flop,
so T&D flip flop.
Don't care condition.
Doesn't happen.
And these are the midterms
that makes the output one.
One quick note and very important
note when I'm saying that what is
the mid term for this one that
makes the T1 you have to consider?
So this is the midterm here Mr here
Mr here for doing the midterms.
As I said, not only you have to
consider the value of the flip flops,
but also the value of input.
So now this is the midterm free.
Here. This is the matter.
This is the middle child,
so this is the midterm age and 4:12.
So you have to consider the value of
ABC at current time and the input for
finding the value of the midterms.
And then the next step is minimalization.
So for minimalization.
You have a is a value of.
All these inputs are the
function of ABC and X,
so you need 4 variable corner map.
You have to put it in the corner map and
simplify that so you can see that for the
J after simplification it becomes one.
For the K becomes one as I said before,
Jaykar is kind of.
It seems that it's difficult
because it has two inputs,
but after simplification you can see that
it's very because of the daunting condition.
It becomes very simplified.
For the D, you have to simplify an.
After you simplify,
you end up with this equation.
And for the T after simplification,
you end up with this equation.
And then. You have the
inputs for the flip flops.
But The thing is,
the only change here is that.
You have to determine the
Boolean function for the F.
So there's additional actions for the output.
So you have to see when the output becomes 1.
The midterm for this midterm
here mid term here and etc.
So you already determined the input of ABC.
You have to see it.
What are the inputs of the output.
So again,
you can consider the midterms.
But The thing is,
here is the difference.
Because F only depends on the
current number of circuits.
It is based on the more model.
It doesn't depend on X,
so X is not considered.
So you have to only determine
the midterms based on the ABC.
So F is only depends on ABC.
You may be making steak and you consider X.
If you consider X by mistake,
you end up with this.
I'm going to show you that if
even if you do a mistake and
you consider X when you consider
the midterm for the output,
you end up with the same result.
So even if you make this mistake,
there is no problem with the final answer.
So either for the output.
Either you you use the three
variable column up or incorrectly
for variable conoma hub.
So if with a free variable comma do end
up with a prime without considering tax.
Even if you consider ex with by mistake.
You end up with a plan.
And then you have to draw the
circuit and then test that.
So here is the circuit.
For the a. J&K must be both one.
Would they be the input of the D must
be exclusive or between a B an X? ABNX
for this see the input.
Is this for a Boolean function?
And here is the Boolean function.
A Barbie bar X. A bar.
Dibar and then X.
So this is the a bar B bar
X and the other one is a BX
bar and then all together.
And the value of Earth.
Only depends on a bar, so any bar goes to F.
So let's see what happens
with this synchronization.
If we want to have a timing diagram.
So you can practice at home for this circuit.
Now the X have had a change to the
behavior of counting up or counting down.
So if you do in the timing diagram.
ABC An F are all synchronized
with the same Clock.
The only thing that can change.
Anytime is the X.
If I make it more complex,
I would say that I can have Emily
model Millie, model of the counter.
Up and down is basically the output of the F.
Not only depends on ABC,
but also it depends on the
input X and this is the example.
Counting up and the number is even,
meaning that X is 0.
And the number is even this on the ABC.
10 I want to turn on the light.
F becomes one, so the value of X matters.
Whether you do counting up or counting down.
So I leave this for you to practice.
These are the slides you can see at home.
And this is the state transition
diagram for when the output is
based on the 1,000,000 model.
And the state table,
and then the minimizations.
So this is kind of for your
practice at home when the F.
Depends on the input.
And we had done so. Usually.
For the I mean a practice or
for the designing circuit,
default is the more model.
Uh, because of the challenges
of the million model with,
we don't usually design the second by the.
A million model.
That's why I put it for your practice.
If you are interested.
Way before it is the more model so.
We are done with the.
Any type of circuit that we
could design combinational
circuit sequential circuits.
The sequential circuit can be only
flip Flop Flip flop with the input
and outputs based on the output
might be more model or million model.
So we are ready to build our computer system,
which I'm going to explain next week.
The last session that we have.
Thank you so much and I'm happy to
take your question if you have any.
It depends on your choice either.
Either the question says that only designed
based on the JK or only designed by T.
If the question doesn't say it's your choice.
Any circuit can be designed
by any flip flops,
so that's why in the designer step.
In the designer step here.
I said that what type of storage you need.
It is your choice, yeah?
But sometimes the question they
say that only designed with
Jake or only designed with T.
The final exam is just after the midterm,
so those topics before the midterm
is not covered in the final exam.
You're welcome. Add.
I, as I said to Philip usually
let me back with the best design.
He the Jacob flip flop if we choose jaycar.
Let me back to the chair for ya if you
use jaycar flip flop, it has two inputs.
As a result you have to do 2 equations
and you have to minimize too.
Equations hocoma so for instance,
for the a flip flop. So in terms of you.
If the question in the final exam
ask you to use a JK
it takes a lot of time.
However, in the practice because
after the simplification it has
because it has don't air condition,
it ends up with less gate.
So in practice in choosing
The Jacka is better.
Because it's needs less
gate to change the state.
But in the exam for you,
because it has two inputs. It has more.
I mean you have to write 2 equation function.
You have to use two corner map.
You have to simplify 2 equations.
As a result it takes more time,
yeah?
So it depends on whether you're a
student answering your question in
final exam or you're an engineer
in the practice and you want
you have enough time,
then you would use Jakaya.
Again, as you can see here
the D flip flop is very
although it has only one input.
So you need only one column
after simplification.
But usually this simplification
needs more gift.
Can see here it needs
two exclusive or gates.
Yeah. So I'm going to be in the office.
If you have any questions,
I'm happy to take your question
in the office as well.
Have a great day guys and thank
you so much for your attendance.
So I'm going to stop the recording.